OIDC config for vclusters ppd 1328 (#1626)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/palette-virtual-clusters/configure-oidc-virtual-cluster.md

---
sidebar_label: "Configure OIDC for a Virtual Cluster"
title: "Configure OIDC for a Virtual Cluster"
description: "Learn how to configure OIDC for Palette Virtual Clusters."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 5
tags: ["clusters", "cluster groups", "virtual clusters"]
---

> Before deploying a virtual cluster, you must set up OpenID Connect (OIDC) Identity Provider (IDP) for the cluster group the virtual cluster belongs to. As virtual clusters are deployed to that cluster group, OIDC information in the cluster group configuration will be inserted into the virtual cluster configuration. 

Reviewer: Rita, this feels like prereq. I think if we should focus on the fact that we _can_ enable OIDC with virtual clusters. To help you out, use this nice lil  raw excerpt produced by our very own Spectromate:

_Enabling OIDC for Palette virtual clusters offers several benefits. Firstly, it enables single sign-on, allowing users to log in once and access multiple virtual clusters without the need for separate authentication. Secondly, it facilitates centralized user management, making it easier to manage user accounts, permissions, and access control in a single location. Lastly, OIDC integration allows for seamless integration with third-party identity providers, ensuring consistent authentication and authorization across the infrastructure. Overall, enabling OIDC enhances security, simplifies user management, and provides a seamless authentication experience for users accessing virtual clusters._

Author: Used the suggested text.

## Prerequisites

> - A healthy host cluster that you will use to create a cluster group.

Reviewer: I think we can simplify this a just say, a cluster group and link to this [guide](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/clusters/cluster-groups/create-cluster-group).

Author: done.

- A cluster group to which you can add virtual clusters.

> - An issuer URL and client ID that you obtain from your identity provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The OIDC issuer URL, OIDC client ID, and OIDC secret. You can obtain this information from your identity provider. 
```
Rita, an OIDC secret may be required. This is more likely the standard case.

Author: Applied fix.

Author: applied.

> - Privileges sufficient to edit cluster group settings and a viewer role to access the generated kubeconfig. If you are deploying virtual clusters, you will need admin privileges.

Reviewer: Let's specify the Palette RBAC permission.  For the Kubeconfig, let's use `cluster.delete` permission as the minimum requirement but send them to this [page](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig/#kubeconfig-files) for more context.

```
clusterGroup.update
```

Author: applied

> - [kubelogin](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin) installed. This is a kubectl plugin for Kubernetes OIDC authentication, also known as `kubectl` oidc-login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [kubelogin](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin) installed. This is a kubectl plugin for Kubernetes OIDC authentication, also known as `kubectl oidc-login`.
```
Fixed closing tickmark that was terminated too early.

Author: fixed tickmark.

Author: applied.

## Configure OIDC

> Use these steps to configure your cluster group with OIDC *before* creating a virtual cluster.

Reviewer: RIta, thoughts on maybe making this a warning box in the prereqs that calls out that you need to enable OIDC before creating the virtual cluster? To me, this feels like a warning.  What I don't know is if this is because we don't support enabling OIDC in an already deployed virtual cluster or because enabling it post-deployment is too much of a headache? I would ask the SME you're working with.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) as a tenant admin.

2. If a cluster group does not exist, you will need to create a host cluster and then create the cluster group. Refer to [Create and Manage Cluster Groups](../../clusters/cluster-groups/create-cluster-group.md) for guidance.

> 3. If a cluster group exists, navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Cluster Groups**.

Reviewer: We can combine these two. We should assume a cluster group exists as it's one of the prereqs. But I still think we should include the link in case someone ignore the prereqs and got here. But let's assume they have a cluster group.

Author: combined and rearranged.

5. In the **Host Clusters** tab that displays on the next page, click on **Settings**.

6. In the slide panel that opens, select the **Settings** option. The cluster group YAML file displays.

7. Locate the `vcluster.extraArgs` parameter section of the cluster group configuration file and uncomment the lines shown in the example.

![Screenshot of the cluster group YAML showing oidc-related parameters to uncomment and update.](/clusters_palette-virtual-clusters_configure-vcluster-oidc.png)

8. Update the `vcluster.extraArgs` section with your identity provider information as shown in example.

    ```yaml
    vcluster:
      extraArgs:	
      - --kube-apiserver-arg=”oidc-issuer-url=<client-url>"
      - --kube-apiserver-arg="oidc-client-id=<client-id>"
      - --kube-apiserver-arg="oidc-username-claim=email"
      - --kube-apiserver-arg="oidc-groups-claim=groups"
    ```

9. If your identity provider requires a client secret, uncomment the `oidc-client-secret` parameter in the `clientConfig` section of cluster group YAML file, and add the client secret.

    ```yaml
    clientConfig:	
      oidc-client-secret: secret-value
    ```

> 10. From the **User Menu**, switch to *App Mode* and click on **Virtual Clusters**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. From the **User Menu**, switch to **App Mode**.  From the left **Main Menu**, click on **Virtual Clusters**.  
```
I think we need to help a newer user understand this is in the left Main Menu. Personally, I would had broken this up into two steps, but that's just my personal preference, nothing wrong with you combining this as it's a pretty simple task.

Author: applied the fix.

11. Deploy a virtual cluster to the cluster group that you configured with OIDC. For steps, review the [Deploy a Virtual Cluster](../palette-virtual-clusters/deploy-virtual-cluster.md#deploy-a-virtual-cluster) guide. 

  :::info

>   If the cluster group is part of a project, you can deploy a virtual cluster in *Cluster Mode* from **Cluster Groups** > **Virtual Clusters**.

Reviewer: This is a bit confusing, mainly the **Cluster Groups** > **Virtual Clusters** usage. What does this mean? Is this a tab or a menu item? It's not clear enough. We need to be explicit about where the user is clicking. In it's current form, it assumes the user is familiar with the Palette UI.

Author: clarified.

  :::

  When the virtual cluster is finished deploying and in **Running** state, a Kubeconfig file is generated that contains OIDC information inserted into it from the cluster group configuration.

12. Use the **Kubeconfig** link that displays on the virtual clusters overview page to download the Kubeconfig file. This will give you access to the Kubernetes cluster.

>   In *App Mode* click on **Virtual Clusters** and select the virtual cluster. In *Cluster Mode* navigate to **Cluster Groups** > **Virtual Clusters** and select the virtual cluster.

Reviewer: Let's help the reader navigate to the App Mode main menu.  Assume they are not familiar with Palette.

Author: Added navigation.

> 13. Configure Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for the virtual cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
13. Create the proper Kubernetes roles and *roleBindings* required to map the OIDC users with a Kubernetes role. Refer to the [Create Role Bindings](../cluster-management/cluster-rbac.md#create-role-bindings) for additional guidance. 
```
I think this is a bit clearer in terms of next steps and fits nicely with your warning message below. Otherwise the reader has to read the warning message to understand the next step.

Author: fixed.

Author: applied.

:::caution

Configuring OIDC requires you to map a set of users or groups to a Kubernetes RBAC role. To learn how to map a Kubernetes role to users and groups, refer to [Create Role Bindings](../cluster-management/cluster-rbac.md#create-role-bindings). Refer to [Use RBAC with OIDC](../../integrations/kubernetes.md#use-rbac-with-oidc) for an example. 

:::

## Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) as a tenant admin.

> 2. Navigate to your virtual clusters, either from **Cluster Groups** > **Virtual Clusters** in *Cluster Mode* if the cluster group is part of a project, or by switching to *App Mode*  from the **User Menu** and selecting **Virtual Clusters**.

Reviewer: We can keep both modes, but let's improve the navigation. The `>` is not helpful, in my opinion, from a beginner's perspective.

Author: Spelled out navigation.

3. Select the virtual cluster you deployed to the cluster group that has OIDC configured.

> 4. Use the **Kubeconfig** link to download the Kubeconfig file, and ensure you’re able to connect to the cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Use the **Kubeconfig** link to download the Kubeconfig file and ensure you can connect to the cluster. Refer to the [Kubectl](../cluster-management/palette-webctl.md) guide for detailed steps.
```

Author: applied fix.

Author: applied.
